=== Chapter 4 (continued) ===
=== Pages 109-116 ===


--- Page 109 ---
75
self-tuning control. It is seen that the Brownian motion of the microbead is reduced when approaching the wall. The real-time estimated input gain is shown in the left panel of Fig. 32. It is compared to the real one. The real-time estimated input gain tracks closely with the real one. The real-time estimated input gain minimized the parameter error in (4.5).We separated the mean of the tracking error by using the IIR filter in (4.6) and the standard deviation of the random tracking error is calculated and compared with the theoretical value. The result is shown in the right panel of Fig. 32. The mean of the tracking error is zero for all three axes, and the standard deviation of the tracking error tracked closely to the theoretical value.Fig. 31. The left panel shows the resulting motion using real-time estimated input gain, and the right panel shows the corresponding tracking error 


--- Page 110 ---
76
Fig. 32. The left panel shows the real-time estimation of the input gain, and the right panel shows the mean and the standard deviation of the tracking error.From the previous experiment, it is important to implement real-time estimation and adaptive self-tuning control when the probe is near the wall. The next experimentwill focus on the motion near the wall. The probe started from the initial position of . The wall is placed at micrometers. The z motion of the probe is a 3 Hz sinusoidal wave with 1 micrometer amplitude. Thus, the closest distance from the wall to the probe center is 2.5 micrometers. The motion of x and y are the same. They are 5 Hz sinusoidal waves with 9 micrometers amplitude. The total motion lasted for 3 seconds. The probe is stabilized and controlled by the control law (3.6) with nominal drag coefficient . The left panel of Fig. 33 shows the result of motion without using real-time estimation. The right panel of Fig. 33 shows the corresponding tracking error. The amplitude of the tracking error of x-axis and y-axis is around 0.8 micrometer. As the probe approached the wall, the tracking error of all three axes increased. The real drag coefficient at the top of the sinusoidal wave in the z-direction is 


--- Page 111 ---
77  
five times larger than the nominal drag coefficient. The drag coefficient increased significantly to twenty times larger than the nominal drag coefficient at the bottom of the sinusoidal wave, so the nominal drag coefficient  in (3.6) is much smaller than the real drag coefficient . The peak and valley of the tracking error happened at the bottom of the sinusoidal wave due to the largest parameter error.  We repeated the experiment with real-time estimation and adaptive self-tuning control. The left panel of Fig. 34 shows the result of motion control with real-time estimation and adaptive self-tuning control. The right panel of Fig. 34 shows the corresponding tracking error. The tracking error is significantly reduced as the real-time estimation and adaptive self-tuning control are applied. The Brownian motion is reduced when the probe approached the wall because the Brownian motion is inverse proportional to the drag coefficient. The real-time estimated input gain is shown in the left panel of Fig. 35. The real-time estimated input gain tracks closely with the real input gain. The real-time estimated input gain minimized the estimation error in (4.5). An IIR filter (4.6) is employed to separate the mean of the tracking error, and the standard deviation of the random tracking error is calculated and compared with the theoretical value. The result is shown in the right panel of Fig. 35. The mean of the tracking error is zero for all three axes, and the standard deviation of the tracking error tracked closely to the theoretical value.  

--- Page 112 ---
78
Fig. 33. The left panel shows the resulting motion using , and the right panel shows the corresponding tracking errorFig. 34. The left panel shows the resulting motion using real-time estimated input gain, and the right panel shows the corresponding tracking error 


--- Page 113 ---
79
Fig. 35. The left panel shows the real-time estimation of the input gain, and the right panel shows the mean and the standard deviation of the tracking error.The last experiment is three-dimensional rapid steering of the magnetic probe experiment in aqueous solutions utilizing real-time estimation and adaptive self-tuningcontrol. The magnetic probe was steered to follow a designed conical helix in the workspace. The probe started from the initial position of , was controlled to rotate along the upward pitch for five cycles, each cycle taking 0.35 seconds, reached the highest point , and then was steered back to the initial position in 0.25 seconds. This is the same trajectory as shown in chapter 3.5.3. In chapter 3.5.3, we are updating the drag coefficient based on the theoretical wall effect model with known wall height. In this experiment, the real-time estimation of the input gain enabled adaptive self-tuning control. Fig.36 shows the experimental results of three-dimensional rapid steering when the real-time estimation of the input gain and adaptive self-tuning control were used to render high-speed visual servo control. The left panel presents the resulting 3-D motion, and the right panel presents the tracking errors of the three axes. 


--- Page 114 ---
80
The left panel of Fig. 37 is the real-time estimation of the input gain. The real-time estimated input gain followed closely with the real input gain. We applied an IIR filter (4.6) to the tracking error to separate the mean of the tracking error and calculated the standard deviation of the random tracking error. As expected, the results show superior performance for rapid 3-D steering with no mean errors in any of the three axes. The standard deviation of the random error for each axis is close to the theoretical prediction.  
Fig. 36. Three-dimensional rapid steering: the left panel shows the resulting motion, and the right panel shows the tracking error. 


--- Page 115 ---
81
Fig. 37. The left panel shows the real-time estimation of the input gain, and the right panel shows the mean and the standard deviation of the tracking error.4.4 ConclusionThe manipulation of the probe in aqueous solution is governed by the Langevin equation at low Reynolds numbers. approaches a wall, the drag coefficient increases with its distance from the surface. The position-dependent drag coefficient is characterized by two principal directions, vertical and parallel to the wall. Based on the model, a position-dependent control law was derived and implemented in chapter 3 to achieve high-speed steering of magnetic microprobe in aqueous solutions. We can achieve zero-mean tracking error and minimum variance control simultaneously. It is worth noting that the drag coefficient in the control law is updated by the theoretical value with known surface height.However, the information of the surface height is not always available. If we use the nominal drag coefficient in the model-based control law, it might cause instability due 


--- Page 116 ---
82  
to the mismatch between the nominal drag coefficient and the real drag coefficient. The stability range is discussed and verified in chapter 4.2. We derived a Kalman filter-based augmented estimator that estimates the time-variant and/or spatially dependent input gain (drag coefficient) in the absence of surface height. It prevents instability and enables us to realize adaptive self-tuning control when propelling the probe in aqueous solution accounting for wall effects. Four experiments are conducted to validate the stability range and the tracking performance after applying the real-time input gain estimation and adaptive self-tuning control. There are still several aspects that can be improved to enable the magnetic probe to steer in an unknown environment. In this chapter, we are discussing the scenario that the principal axis of the surface normal is overlapped with the z-direction of the measurement coordinate, so we can estimate the input gain of the three axes separately. This is not applicable for an unknown environment, i.e., incline surface, and spherical surface. The three separate input gains are extended to a 3x3 input matrix in the unknown environment. The estimation of the surface orientation and the estimation of the 3x3 input matrix is required to perform 3-D rapid steering with zero-mean tracking error and minimum variance control in unknown environments.   
